And I don't know, maybe I shouldn't say this, but I
don't know whether Joe was a political high or not,
because his brother was president of Corpus
Christi State at the time, and was kind of the
fair-haired lad of the system, I think. But then
in...
Oh, yeah, it was November the 8th. I'll never
forget it. I'd been trying to get one of my
supervisors reclassified. We'd gotten into the
sign business by that time, and I had a graphics
supervisor, and I was afraid I was going to lose him
if I didn't get him reclassified. And I'd been
trying to get a meeting with Robert for two and a
half months to talk about it. because you didn't do
anything like that without Robert's blessings
right off the top. You know, it had Had to go up and
then had to come back around and through. And so I
went up to visit with Robert and had all my stuff.
And he was up in Rudder Tower at his office and had a
little conference table right by the entrance to
his office. And he was over by the window and he
said, go ahead and sit down. So I sat down and spread
my stuff out. And he came over and he said, I'm going
to merge grounds and physical plant. and pitched a
packet over to me, sliding across the table, and
said, there's your new job. I said, oh? He said,
yeah. And I said, Robert, you don't fix something
unless it's broke, and we sure as hell aren't
broke. He said, well, that's what I'm going to do.
and uh so i you know was shocked i mean because i
thought robert and i had gotten along very well but
and i never did understand a lot of the why of it but i
wound up as deputy director of physical plant in
november of 90. i went to talk to joe sugg and all
like that, and he didn't want to talk to me a whole
lot, you know. I spent from November until
September, I didn't do a thing. Now, was this a, as
you understood it, was this a promotion? Well, Joe
says it was. Joe Sugg said it was, and I said, well, I
don't see how you can call it a promotion, you know.
And I went to, I don't know whether you remember
Leroy Johnson or not, he was assistant director of
fiscal planning over the fiscal, and Leroy and I
had known each other for years. And I kept going to
him, I said, you know, when the budgets come up, I
want to see if my job's in the budget. Because I had
some strong premonition that my title would not be
in the budget. But it was. I'd talk to my son, who's
an attorney, to see what, because I'd never gotten
anything but commendations and all like this. And
I didn't think they could fire me, but I didn't
think they had any kind of grounds. So then Joe
decided that I guess that I wasn't going anywhere
and that he needed to get me doing something so we
had had developed a geographic information
system and so he put me put the geographic
information system under me which was kind of a
godsend because that was something that I liked I
knew what it was about you could see the value of it
and trying to get that get that going so I had that
and Oh, I did a few other little things, but I was
explicitly kept out of anything I'd been involved
in for the last 25 or 30 years. And nobody ever gave
you any explanation? And a sub would threaten me
and say, you talk to Robert Smith and I'll fire you
on the spot. He told anybody that. Nobody went up
above him. And then Robert served for how much
longer? Well, he served until early 94. He and Joe
got involved. We needed some additional
generation capacity. And so they got this thing
about a third-party generation power plant. And
unfortunately, you know, I wouldn't wish this on
anybody. Robert got sick. You know, he developed,
I guess, prostate cancer. And he got to the point
that he couldn't handle everything. You know, he
was away. He just couldn't do it. And Sugg was way
out. He'd gotten permission from Robert, I guess,
too. And I think Robert was working on pretty
direct orders from Margraves, who was chairman of
the board at that time. And then things kind of went
started coming apart after this, because this was
kind of a design and build thing, and nobody was
supervising them. They were tearing stuff up and
all like this. And the upshot was that in probably
June, Well, I guess Ray Bowen had come by then. And
then by June, May or June of, I think, yeah, it was
94, he replaced Robert. And then it wasn't too long
until they replaced Joe, asked Joe to move aside.
This was after Jerry Gaston was named interim vice
president. And I'd known Jerry a long time. And
so... In late August of that year, Jerry, he called
me and said, would you be interim director of
physical plant for about 60 days till we can find
somebody? I said, okay. He said, are you
interested? I said, no, it's a doable job, but I'm
who I am. I'm a green person. I need to be dealing
with stuff that I've dealt with for the last 30 or 40
years. And so then we had all sorts of problems with
utilities and we had to, we had to, uh, the state
management audit was going, had just been
initiated and, um, a number of areas, you know,
they were looking at a number of utilities was one
of them and they'd gotten, I think, Probably 80% of
the, they had an 800 number, and about 80% of the 800
calls they got was from the Department of
Utilities. I mean, it was, we had a gentleman by the
name of Al Baxter that Joe had hired, and I think Al
was probably a pretty good engineer. He had hired
another guy that was not too swift. I mean, his
personnel dealings were just, but at any rate,
there were a lot of complaints there, and so I was
having to respond to a lot of these questions, and
in the meantime, Leroy Johnson had retired on me,
so I had, I had my old job, what little was my old job,
the director's job, and Leroy's job, you know. And
I dealt with Jerry, and I got to know Jerry, I knew
Jerry pretty well, but I got to really know Jerry
real well. You know, we worked, oh God, we worked so
closely together. And responding to all this, and
then it became relevant that we had a problem in
utilities. So in early January, of 95, we put both
Al Baxter and Don Thompson, was the guy's name, on
administrative leave with pay because there was
just so much there we had to investigate. And then
we appointed a three-person committee to look
into it. And they did all their looking and all like
this. and came back and we decided there was
grounds and Al Baxter in the meantime had decided
he needed to go elsewhere and so he saw the
handwriting on the wall but they were, I had told
them me back up a little bit on normally during
Christmas break we would do some chill water
outages to do maintenance and this kind of thing
because that's about the only time of the year that
you've got a clear shot at people not being in
buildings or at least very few people and so they
were also working on a an in-house project that Joe
had, and I was just getting into some of this, that
he had let them do. They were going to split the
chill water system into four distinct systems.
which bothered me. And they were going to put some,
and they'd bought four 900 horsepower turbine
pumps to put one on each thing. And Estill called me
and said, they're going to blow the place up, Gene.
They're going to blow it up because he'd gotten
wind of it. And I respect Joe. Joe's a very good
engineer. And so I canceled the outage because I
knew they were going to do some work on these pumps
as a part of that. And so then they came up and met
with me and they said, we've got to have an outage or
we can't guarantee chill water next year. I said,
okay, you go ahead and have your outage, but do not
do anything in support of the big pumping system.
Period. And apparently they did. And as the
investigation team turned up, they did almost 500
contract millwright man hours in direct support
of those pumps. You know, I mean, huge pipe welding
and all like this. And I told Jerry, I said, you
know, if I had known they were working on that
during Christmas, I'd have gone out and fired both
of them on the spot. And he said, yeah, I think I'd
have been right behind you. But Anyway, we had to
work through that. And then ultimately, Don
Thompson sued both. That's still going on, I
guess. I don't know. I hear from the lawyers every
now and then. And so my 60 days as interim ended on
the last of August. exactly a year afterwards when
Chuck Scipio came. And then I worked for Chuck for a
while. And Jerry had asked me if I wanted to apply
for it. And I said, no, I think I'm going to retire
before long. And whoever gets it needs some years
in the job. And I said, at that point in time, I still
had some that they might break grounds back out or
that I might get back into some of that. And that's
where I was headed. But
that didn't happen. So you retired when? I retired
in February of 98. February of 98. Yeah, it was 25
years to the day. Exactly a quarter century. Yeah.
Let's see, did you ever have any system
responsibilities? No, not delineated. I'd
gotten to the point in my relationship, even after
the merger, Joe Sugg didn't like this, but they
would call and say, we need some help. And I would go
over, particularly Charles Caffey had replaced
Paul Stevens at the time, and they'd have some
plans. Oh, particularly they did a lot of work down
at Prairie View, landscape work, and down at
Galveston. And I went down, Estill borrowed me a
time or two, and I went down to Galveston to help him
out on some things. Did you here have
responsibility for the Chancellor's home?
Mm-hmm. And what about the system building over on
What is that, 29th? 29th, I guess. Yeah, that all
came about after the merger. I mean, that part of
it. Now, the chancellor's residence We had a
little problem there with one of the guys in the
facilities planning, an architect over there,
because they were designing that, and they were
allocating like $20,000 for landscape. And I told
Bob, I said, Bob, this is a million-dollar house.
You can't do it. He said, you'll take that and do it
and like it. And I said, we're busy. You need to bid
this one out. And the landscape architect is a good
friend of mine from San Antonio. And he said, y'all
need to do this. I said, uh-uh. I don't want to get
caught in that trap. And so they wound up doing a
little fiddly job out there within that money, and
nobody liked it, so they finally had to come out and
get some more money and redo it. And particularly
after Perry Atkinson moved in out there, he had
particularly that front terrace area got redone.
What the cost was? Oh, God, I don't know. Probably
$50,000. What about the big, I was gone at this
time, But the big argument, Bob Rucker being in the
middle of it, about the oak trees over near the MSC,
did those involve your? Yeah. Yeah. Steve Hodge
and Robert had come to me, you know, about the oak
trees. Robert Smith? Robert Smith, he was, he was
VP at the time. And, uh, cause this was like an 80s,
early 87 or so that, you know, this is going to take
some trees. And, uh, so we had some on both sides of
the MSC and I said, well, I think the smaller ones
could be relocated. You know, that's, that's
where I had hit it. And Robert got into it and. got to
talking to a gentleman by the name of Al Krennic.
He's the guy that invented the tree spade and sold
it to Vermeer for a pittance. But anyway, and he was
still digging trees by hand and had fabricated his
original tree spade. Al came up and looked at them
and said, yeah, we can move these. And then Robert
got into it and talked to him. And then suddenly,
some of the bigger trees were added. And I said, mm,
I don't know about that. And Al said, no, I think we
can move them. And so that's how that got started,
because the trees that I wanted to move were some
that I had planted in 1973 and four, particularly
along Joe Route. There were four or five of them.
And those are still alive. and two or three plus
some in Kane Park and one over by the
administration building. And maybe one or two of
the others are still going, I don't know. But I
think, and I never could prove it, but I think there
was some help because one or two of those trees went
down overnight.
And that doesn't happen with lack of water. We were
going in And they provided drainage in
particularly large oak. And in calculating the
size of the ball and all like this, and we did a lot of
preliminary pruning, you know, it had a good
chance of working. But we would water real heavily
one day, and then the next day we'd put a little pump
down to it, and we'd pump the water, the free water
out, you know. And we'd fed them. And they were
looking pretty, because we did this in probably
January or so, January or February, because it was
getting kind of late. Yeah, probably February.
And I can remember showing my mother was alive
then, and we went down for, I guess it was Mother's
Day brunch. And I walked her over and showed her the
big trees that, you know, just, she was curious
about it. And they were in great shape then. And
then within, 10 days, and I usually personally
checked them. I looked at them on a daily basis
because I knew if they died, there was going to be
lots of flak generated on it. And your thought is
that perhaps somebody deliberately, what could
they have done that would have killed them
quicker? Well, we had four large pipe. They were
big rectangular type boxed boxes that they boxed
them in. And they were set on gravel and I think set
on a number of lateral PVC pipes to make sure they
had plenty of air and drainage. And on each corner,
there was a big four-inch pipe to water in and to
pump it out with because we'd gotten together and
determined that that was the best approach to it.
And Al had moved a lot of trees bigger than that and
gotten them to live, you know. uh but they just they
went down too quick and they browned just like that
and normally you don't do that unless there's some
kind of foreign agent in there but now am i correct
in recalling that mr rucker thought one of those
was a pet of president rudder yeah they're they
kept calling the big one the Rotor Oak. And... He
didn't have any... I didn't, uh-uh. None of us
could say, we don't know where that came from. And I
think that came from Robert. Robert Smith? Smith.
Now, Smith didn't want to move, or did he? No, he
did. He did? Yeah, yeah, he did. But this was one
that you thought was too big. I thought it was too
big. There were three or four that... Robert
talked to Al Krennic, And then Al came back and
said, well, they want to do this and this. And I
said, Al, I'm afraid those are too big. Because
what I want to do is like six or seven. They were
trees about like that. I thought that was very
easily doable. And they were small enough we could
get them around someplace and place them. And we
put three or four of them over in Kane Park. And one
of them is over by the entrance and exit to Lot 55.
And I can't think of where the other one is. I knew
those had a good root system because they'd been
transplanted once or twice before we planted
them. That meant that they had a good, a very thick
root system. When you do that, trees are a lot more
easily transplantable that way. but now Bob would
just rant and rave I kind of just backed off you know
I said I agree they're too big you know but I don't
know whether he thought I had the I was behind it or
not but I was behind moving the small ones because I
felt that was very very doable. Among the goofy
ideas I've had when some of the larger trees die
I've always thought, why wouldn't it be good for
some Aggie that has a small little sawmill
operation to come and get some of the trunks, saw it
up, and to use it to make plaques and or picture
frames out of that you'd sell to diehard Aggies?
Oh, yeah, yeah. Because there's no value to live
oak lumber. No, as a lumber, no. Because otherwise
it ends up, I presume, as firewood. Yeah. And let
some guy who's almost a hobby, let him do that. What
about, looking back, are there any changes in the
way things were done that we might have done if we'd
had all the experience we now have? How could we
have done things better?
Probably the primary thing was funding
because the average person does not realize the
kind of funding it takes to do what people want
done. About what percentage more would have made a
difference? I think if we'd had 15, 20 percent
more. That was before that was in the early stages
when they started cutting back on the formula.
But, and I don't even think the formula is a valid
thing now, if you want to understand. Did the
formula get less and less? Mm-hmm. Formula got
less and less, and then suddenly it, see, I kind of
got out of the budget picture after the merger,
because I wasn't allowed to in any of that. Did
grounds maintenance and horticulture,
floriculture, landscaping, did y'all ever get
any of the PUFF money from the university fund? It
was all appropriated formula. Right, right. I
tried, I think with, particularly with Chuck
Cargill and Vandiver, I worked up a program of
landscape rejuvenation and renovation on the
premise that landscapes wear out just like
mechanical stuff and buildings and things like
this. And they always said, well, there's not
enough. We can't keep the buildings maintained.
And I understood, but I had to try.
But one of the things I wanted to do and I tried to
sell this to Joe Sugg, and he didn't like it, is I
told him I thought we ought to collect acorns from
the century oak and start, you know, an Aggie oak
project. I wrote up a couple of pages on that. What
happened to that proposal? I think it went in his
trash. Oh. Because he didn't like it. Oh. And he
wanted to kill the... the memorial tree program,
which was, that was Bob Walker and I, after Bob got
some emphasis from, who was chairman of the board,
David Eller. He lost a good friend, an ag from the
valley, and that was the first memorial tree. Bob
and I talked about this a while. I was I was more
interested in benches and things like this
because we needed benches. And so he called me up
and he said, you know, we've been talking about
this and I got some direct marching orders. Come
over and talk to me. So we sat down and we worked out
our memorial tree program. Well, when Joe Sugg
came, he said, we're going to do away with that. And
I said, no, we're not. So I called Walker. And I
said, Bob, we've got a problem. He said, I'm going
to take him to lunch. I said, good. He said, you're
coming.
We went to lunch up in the tower. And in Bob's own
very polite way, he explained it to him. So I've
never mentioned the memorial trees again. He
said, no, this is a program. It's viable. It's
workable. And I want this man on the other end of it.
And I guess Eller was still chairman of the board
maybe i'm not sure but he said this was initiated
from the highest position and as long as i'm around
it's going to stay here any questions as far as you
were aware compared to the other areas underneath
the vice president i'll call it for business were
you all funded at approximately the same level
were they also their budgets tight Yeah, I think
their budgets were tight. I never did know much
about the rest of the budgets because it really
wasn't any of my... But you didn't have the
impression that y'all got cut more? No. There were
times that, yeah, maybe we did get a little bit
because we were probably a little more expendable
to some degree than...
Let's say fiscal or personnel or something like
that.
Some other things that just didn't work? Some
ideas that somebody had? Oh, yeah. The prairie
film thing. Prairie film? Prairie film. What that
was, it's an epoxy coated aggregate. It's one of
those ideas that's fantastic on paper. I always
understood that General Ludeke thought that was a
great idea. Oh, yeah, he did. Yeah, we hashed that
out in his stuff, you know, and one of the landscape
architects proposed it. And it would have worked
very well, except it started degenerating
because of solar degeneration. Light started
breaking it down. You know, like, and I don't know
whether, of course, with my background, I've had a
lot of greenhouses with plastic on it. And one day
you just start looking at it and it just totally
comes apart. And that's what that was doing. So we
started a project of using interlocking pavers,
you know, no mortar just, and that helped because I
kept wanting to try to get as much air and water down
to those tree roots and let people across, you
know, without creating any more compaction and,
than necessary. I guess we finally got rid of most
of the epoxy, had to, just because it finally
started breaking up. Of course, somebody would
get a vehicle up on it, and it was all broken up. But
that was one I thought was a really good idea. And I
think if it could have been kept in the shade and out
of our intense sun, we'd have probably been OK. But
there's enough late and early morning light that
it just started breaking. And it all started
happening. within probably that all that was done
in 70 74 5 and 6 and by 79 about three or four years and
the areas of the real intense shade it lasted the
longest so and that's what Goldwater and I came up
with that it was a solar breakdown you know that it
just uh it just started coming apart. I've always
liked when I go to the University of North Carolina
many, many of their sidewalks, I'll call them, are
unmortared brick. They tamp the sand underneath
it. They lay the bricks down as tree roots. Oh,
yeah. They can come and go. And then if they need to
move the sidewalk, it's an instant thing. See,
what I tried to get going, after we started using
the interlocking pavers, modular paving, and I
tried to get... I guess with Joe Estill, in a
utility break, instead of going back with poured
concrete, use a gray interlocking paper you know
and uh I mean because they can take those things and
they've got them they've got them at DFW airport
that all those big jets run on and all like this and
it's on uh on uh granular road base you know granted
but uh They'll take an immense amount of traffic if
they're properly based. And I think they're a
wonderful thing. And I tried my best on the MSC
thing to get the architects to consider doing
something in that big plaza out there, you know,
around the fountain, the brown brick. I said, do
something with some different colors and
patterns and all like this. I said, it's going to
look like a roof scape. I was right but the
architect and I had so many confrontations over
trees that the last couple reviews I would walk in
and he would leave I mean it just I just was a thorn in
his side because I wouldn't he said well we'll just
take this tree out and I said now wait a minute why
are you taking this tree out and I finally got in,
before I retired, I got in some trees over at Kyle
Field. The engineering guy that David Gallagher,
he came and he said, I've got a problem. Okay. Are
you asking me questions? So we had a big tree that
was going to be up against the face of the west end of
the north side.
So I told David, I said, well, let's hold out. We've
got to save this.